Introduction
============

INGV, in keeping with its institutional objectives, promotes and
performs research activities on the natural processes of the Earth
system, which are subdivided into three macro-areas of reference:
Earthquakes, Volcanoes, Environment.

This document, pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 218/2016, adopts the
European Commission Recommendation of 11 March 2005 on the European
Charter for Researchers and on a Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of
Researchers (2005/251/EC), with particular regard to the provisions
relating to research freedom, dissemination and exploitation of
research, and protection of intellectual property.

The Body’s signing of the Position Statement on Open Access to the
results of scientific research in Italy in March 2013 reflects INGV’s
commitment to adhere to the Open Access Principles contained in the
“Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and
Humanities”, in order to support and promote the principle of Open
Access.

Following the approval of the Principles of the INGV Data Policy [1]_,
the need emerged to analyze and regulate the management of the
scientific literature separately from the scientific data by virtue of
the respective unique and specific features.

The development of this Policy is aimed at establishing acts of
political and operational guidance with regard to publications, and in
essence serves purposes of:

-  Visibility for INGV scientific research;

-  Promotion and implementation of Open Access;

-  Respect for the commitment signed in May 2013 in the Position
   Statement on Open Access to the results of scientific research in
   Italy;

-  Fulfilment of national and EC regulations, defining the timing and
   procedures for compliance with legal obligations.

Open Access responds to the high constitutional values of promoting and
developing scientific and technical research and culture, as well as
protecting research freedom. In particular, it aims to strengthen the
dissemination of scientific research on an international scale; at
making research products accessible to parties without access to for-pay
distribution systems; at reinforcing interdisciplinary research,
knowledge transfer to companies, and transparency to citizens; at making
the use of scientific contributions for educational purposes more
efficient; and at guaranteeing the preservation of scientific production
over time.

INGV is committed to implementing an appropriate financial planning
aimed at pursuing the goals described above, and in order to honour the
signed commitments.

.. [1]
   Presidential Decree no. 200 of 26 April 2016
