Art. 2 - Open Access Policy
===========================

This policy is drawn up in application of the EU Commission
Recommendation of 17 July 2012 on access to and preservation of
scientific information (2012/417/EU) [1]_. The document also takes
account of the provisions of art. 4, paragraphs 2 and 4 of Legislative
Decree no. 91/2013, converted with modifications into Law no.
112/2013 [2]_.

INGV ensures Open Access to publications produced as part of its own
research projects.

The provisions on Open Access call for two levels: the “Green Road,”
which is to say the self-archiving of the metadata of a scientific
contribution, accompanied by the complete text and by the free,
irrevocable, and universal concession to all users of the right to
access;

or the “Gold Road,” which is to say the publication of scientific
contributions in open-access publishing venues.

INGV is committed to implementing the “Green Road” and the “Gold Road,”
for the purpose of disseminating the scientific contributions of its own
researchers and making them accessible outside of the commercial
publishing circuits, compatibly with compliance with the regulations on
copyright, while also allowing its institutional archive to network with
the institutional archives of other research institutions and
universities in compliance with the Principles of Open Access and the
related standards for interoperability. In addition to self-archiving,
INGV promotes open-access publications, or the “Gold Road” through the
international journal *Annals of Geophysics* and the INGV publishing
series, in which open-access scientific contributions are published.

As reported by its employees’ Code of Behaviour issues in 2015 (art.3),
the Body combats plagiarism and reserves the right to use appropriate
means to verify the originality of the works entered into the Archive.

.. [1]
   In Official Journal of the European Union L 194/39 of 21 July 2012,
   in a note in which the EU Commission, through the Member States, asks
   academic institutions to define and implement policies for the spread
   of scientific publications and Open Access thereto, as well as for
   policies for the long-term preservation of scientific publications;

.. [2]
   Law no. 112/2013, Paragraph 4, according to which the public parties
   charged with delivering or managing the financing of scientific
   research adopt, in their autonomy, the measures necessary for
   promoting open access...
